.\" $OpenBSD: b43bsd.4,v 1.1 2026/06/24 xirtus Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 BroadcomBSD Project
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt B43BSD 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm b43bsd
.Nd Broadcom BCM4331 IEEE 802.11n SoftMAC wireless driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "b43bsd* at pci?"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for Broadcom BCM4331 PCIe SoftMAC wireless
chipsets found in 2011\(en2012 MacBook Pro laptops.
.Pp
It uses the Sonics Silicon Backplane (SSB) to communicate with the
on-die 802.11 MAC and PHY-N radio, and loads vendor-supplied
microcode firmware at runtime.
.Pp
The following features are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
Infrastructure (BSS) and monitor mode
.It
WPA2-PSK and WPA-Enterprise (via
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8 )
.It
802.11n: MCS 0\(en23, 40 MHz channels, short guard interval
.It
2.4 GHz and 5 GHz dual-band operation
.It
A-MPDU aggregation
.It
Hardware WEP/TKIP/CCMP encryption (experimental)
.El
.Pp
This driver requires firmware files from Broadcom, distributed
separately.
The firmware is loaded at runtime from
.Pa /etc/firmware/b43bsd/
by
.Xr fw_update 8 .
.Sh HARDWARE
The following cards are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -column "Card" "Bus" "Standard" -offset indent
.It Em Card Ta Em Bus Ta Em Standard
.It Li "BCM4331" Ta PCIe x1 Ta 802.11n 3x3 MIMO
.El
.Sh FIRMWARE
.Nm
requires the following firmware files:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
.Pa b43bsd/ucode30_mimo.fw
(microcode)
.It
.Pa b43bsd/n0initvals30.fw
(PHY-N base init values)
.It
.Pa b43bsd/n0bsinitvals30.fw
(PHY-N band-switch init values)
.It
.Pa b43bsd/pcm30.fw
(PCM TX samples)
.El
.Pp
These files are installed automatically by
.Xr fw_update 8
from the
.Pa b43bsd-firmware
package.
.Sh CAVEATS
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
2011\(en2012 MacBook Pro models with buggy EFI firmware may
experience interrupt storms on the PCIe line shared by the
BCM4331.
The driver implements a hardware storm detector that masks
spurious interrupts.
Use the sysctl
.Dv hw.b43bsd.reset_on_storm
to auto-recover.
.It
Suspend/resume support is experimental.
Re-association may be required after resume.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "b43bsd0: cannot map BAR0"
The PCI memory BAR could not be mapped.
The device may be disabled or malfunctioning.
.It "b43bsd0: firmware start timeout"
The microcode firmware did not start within the expected time
(500 ms).
Check that the firmware files are present in
.Pa /etc/firmware/b43bsd/ .
.It "b43bsd0: spurious interrupt storm, masking until reset"
The EFI firmware left the BCM4331 in a state where it continuously
asserts interrupts.
The driver has masked the interrupt line to protect the system.
Reset with
.Dv hw.b43bsd.reset_on_storm .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr arp 4 ,
.Xr ifmedia 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr netintro 4 ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr hostname.if 5 ,
.Xr fw_update 8 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8 ,
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
driver first appeared in OpenBSD 7.9-current.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written for the BroadcomBSD project,
porting the Linux
.Nm b43
driver to OpenBSD.
